# Meal Planner

## Environment Files

In order to build this application, you will need two environment files: `.env.local` and `.env.production`. They have he following data in them:

```
VITE_FIREBASE_API_KEY=your-dev-api-key-here
VITE_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID=your-dev-sender-id-here
VITE_FIREBASE_APP_ID=your-dev-app-id-here
```

Obtain the appropriate information from the Firebase console.

## Build and Deploy

This application uses [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/) with [changesets](https://pnpm.io/using-changesets). The general workflow is:

1. Create a branch from the Jira task.
1. `pnpm changeset` - describe in a sentence what you will be doing
1. Test, Code, Commit, Test, Code, Commit, etc.
1. Pull request, move Jira task to in-review
1. When reviewing the PR, be sure to also perform the following:
   1. `pnpm build`
   1. `pnpm test`
   1. `pnpm lint`
1. Merge pull request via BitBucket, moving Jira task to done
1. Repeat

Once enough has been done to justify releasing, then from the fully merged `main` branch:

1. `pnpm bump`
1. Review and commit using a message such as "release vX.Y.Z"
1. `git -a vX.Y.Z -m "release vX.Y.Z"`
1. `git push`
1. `git push --tags`
1. `pnpm release`

## 🛠️ Tooling Notes

### Components

Vue template files in the `src/components` folder (and sub-folders) are automatically imported.

#### 🚀 Usage

Importing is handled by [unplugin-vue-components](https://github.com/unplugin/unplugin-vue-components). This plugin automatically imports `.vue` files created in the `src/components` directory, and registers them as global components. This means that you can use any component in your application without having to manually import it.

The following example assumes a component located at `src/components/MyComponent.vue`:

```vue
<template>
  <div>
    <MyComponent />
  </div>
</template>

<script lang="ts" setup>
//
</script>
```

When your template is rendered, the component's import will automatically be inlined, which renders to this:

```vue
<template>
  <div>
    <MyComponent />
  </div>
</template>

<script lang="ts" setup>
import MyComponent from '@/components/MyComponent.vue';
</script>
```

#### Notes

- This works for subfolders without a namespace on the component. The subfolders are just organizational within the `src/components` directory.
- I am not using a prefix on the components, but they _do_ all have multi-word names by convention.

### Pages

Vue components created in the `src/pages` folder will automatically be converted to navigatable routes.

#### 🚀 Usage

Full documentation for this feature can be found in the Official [unplugin-vue-router](https://github.com/posva/unplugin-vue-router) repository.

#### Notes

- Subfolders are expressed in the navigation. That is, items under `src/pages/foods` will be under `foods/` in the URL navigation of the app.
- Pages often have single-name files begining with lower-case letters, breaking from Vue standards and best-practices in general. This is done because they affect the paths in the URL, which are public. While breaking from best-practice, it does not cause problems. These components are never rendered outside of the router.
- The folder structure itself is very similar to how the router works in NextJS, so directory or file names like `[id]` denote a parameter (`id` in this case) that is replaced at run-time and is accessible via the `params` object.

### Plugins

Plugins are a way to extend the functionality of your Vue application. Use the `src/plugins` folder for registering plugins that you want to use globally.

### Layouts

Layouts are reusable components that wrap around pages. They are used to provide a consistent look and feel across multiple pages. For the base layouts used in this project, see `src/layouts`.

#### 🚀 Usage

Full documentation for this feature can be found in the Official [vite-plugin-vue-layouts-next](https://github.com/loicduong/vite-plugin-vue-layouts-next) repository.

#### Notes

- The `default` layout is used by most screens and it wraps the pages in a menu structure.
  - The `DefaultMobileLayout` is used for viewport sizes consistent with tablets or smaller. It uses a mobile friendly "hamburger" menu.
  - The `DefaultDesktopLayout` is used for larger viewports. It uses a hover expanding side menu.
- The `standalone` layout is used for pages such as the login page that are not wrapped by a menu.

### Changesets

The `.changeset/` folder was automatically generated by `@changesets/cli`, a build tool that works with multi-package repos, or single-package repos to help you version and publish the code.

#### 🚀 Usage

Full documentation for changesets exists [in its repository](https://github.com/changesets/changesets).

A quick list of common questions to get started engaging with this project [also exists](https://github.com/changesets/changesets/blob/main/docs/common-questions.md).

#### Notes

- See the [build notes](#build-and-deploy) for details on how this tool is used within this projects.

## ❗️ Important Links

- 📄 [Vuetify Docs](https://vuetifyjs.com/)
- 🚨 [Vuetify Issues](https://issues.vuetifyjs.com/)
- 💬 [Vuetify Discord](https://community.vuetifyjs.com)
  🔥 [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com/project/kws-meal-planner/overview)
  📑 [Firebase Docs](https://firebase.google.com/docs)
